---
title: 389. Find the Difference
seoTitle: LeetCode 389. Find the Difference | Python solution and explanation using Counter
description: Detailed explanation and Python solution for LeetCode problem 389. Find the Difference using the `collections.Counter`.
toc: true
tags: [LeetCode]
categories: [Algorithms, LeetCode, Easy]
date: 2023-09-26
lastMod: 2023-09-26
featuredImage: https://picsum.photos/700/241?grayscale
weight: 389
---

[LeetCode problem 389](<https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-difference/>)

## Problem Statement

Given two strings `s` and `t`, the string `t` is generated by shuffling the characters of `s` and adding one additional character at a random position. The task is to identify and return that extra character.

## Naive Solution

A naive solution would involve comparing the characters in both strings one by one to detect the extra character in `t`. This method is not efficient as it could take a linear amount of time for strings of considerable lengths.

## Hints & Tips

- Counting occurrences of characters can help detect discrepancies.
- The `collections.Counter` class is a handy tool in Python for counting elements in a collection.

## Approach

We can utilize Python's `collections.Counter` to help us find the difference between the two strings. The `Counter` allows us to quickly count the occurrences of each character in the string `s`. We then iterate over the string `t` and decrement the count for each character encountered. The character that results in a count of `-1` is the one that was added to `t`.

## Steps

1. Create a Counter for the string `s`.
2. Iterate over each character `c` in string `t`.
3. Decrement the count for character `c` in the Counter.
4. If the count for any character becomes `-1`, that character is the one added to string `t`.
5. Return the character found in the previous step.

## Solution

```python
from collections import Counter

class Solution:
  def findTheDifference(self, s: str, t: str) -> str:
    count = Counter(s)

    for c in t:
      count[c] -= 1
      if count[c] == -1:
        return c
```
